---
layout: post
title: Temporal Trends in Treatment and Outcomes of Acute Myocardial Infarction in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
category: co-author
tags: papers
keywords: ami
---
## [J Am Heart Assoc.](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28298371?dopt=Abstract)
2017 Mar 15;6(3). pii: e004525. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.116.004525.

### Temporal Trends in Treatment and Outcomes of Acute Myocardial Infarction in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: A Nationwide Population-Based Observational Study.

Su TH   1, **Chang SH**   2, Chen PC   3,4, Chan YL   5.

Abstract
BACKGROUND:
Acute myocardial infarction is a major cause of hospitalization and death in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); however, temporal trends in the management and clinical outcomes of these patients remain unclear.

METHODS AND RESULTS:
We conducted an observational study by using a representative sample of 1 million beneficiaries from the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database. Comorbidities, in-hospital treatment, and outcomes were compared for patients with acute myocardial infarction with and without COPD between 2004 and 2013. Temporal trends in treatment and outcomes were analyzed. We included 6770 patients admitted to hospitals with acute myocardial infarction diagnoses, of whom 1921 (28.3%) had COPD. Fewer patients with COPD received β-blockers (adjusted odds ratio 0.66, 95% CI 0.59-0.74), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin II receptor blockers (adjusted odds ratio 0.83, 95% CI 0.73-0.93), statins, anticoagulants, dual antiplatelets, and coronary interventions. These patients had higher mortality (in hospital: adjusted hazard ratio 1.25 [95% CI 1.11-1.41]; 1 year: adjusted hazard ratio 1.20 [95% CI 1.09-1.32]) and respiratory failure risk during admission. Temporal trends showed little improvement in mortality in patients with COPD over 10 years. Multivariable logistic regression indicated that dual antiplatelets, β-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin II receptor blockers, statins, coronary angiography, and coronary artery bypass grafting surgery were significantly correlated with improved mortality in patients with COPD.

CONCLUSIONS:
In Taiwan, a lower proportion of patients with COPD received evidence-based therapies for acute myocardial infarction than did patients without COPD, and their clinical outcomes were inferior. Limited improvement in mortality was observed over the preceding 10 years and is attributable to the underuse of evidence-based treatments.
